# Artifice Toolkit
Normally, extending Unity’s editor requires specialized knowledge of IMGUI or the UI Toolkit libraries, along with maintaining separate files for each editor extension. This makes the editor's capabilities less accessible and often a hassle to research and learn.

The ArtificeToolkit simplifies this process by providing custom attributes that can be applied directly in the source code, automatically altering the appearance of properties in the editor. The toolkit can be used in a variety of creative ways and can even be extended by creating new attributes.

To demonstrate its usage and effectiveness, see the following MonoBehaviour script's inspector. On the left is the default inspector generated by Unity, and on the right is the same script with a few additional attributes.

## Why use the ArtificeToolkit?

- Visually "lightweight" inspectors reduce cognitive load by removing unnecessary information.
- A simplified interface helps developers focus on relevant details, minimizing distractions.
- Streamlining the editor reduces mental effort, improving workflow efficiency and effectiveness.


## What is included?
The Artifice Toolkit offers two powerful tools:

1. Artifice Inspector: Alter the appearance of your editor's inspector with simple C# custom attributes. This is editor scripting without the editor scripting knowledge being required!

2. Artifice Validator: Attach validator attributes to your serialized properties to always make sure certain rules are being followed. Don's waste time on absent minded mistakes ever again.

## How to install into your Unity project?
Simply add it as a Unity Package through git repository link.


<!-- CUSTOM ATTRIBUTE CATEGORIES AND LINKS -->
# Custom Attributes
By using custom attributes in your MonoBehviour scripts you can quickly alter the inspectors appearance. The following categories and attributes have been currently implemented and tested.

## Top 3 Recommended Attributes
Following are the simplest to use attributes which can have a big impact on visuals of the inspector.

- [FoldoutGroup](#foldout-group)
- [Required](#required)
- [PreviewScriptable](#previewscriptable)

## Group Attributes
Group Attributes can be used to bring together various properties in a form of a group. Such groups can also work in a nested manner as shown in the [BoxGroup](#boxgroup) example.

- [BoxGroup](#boxgroup)
- [FoldoutGroup](#foldout-group)
- [TabGroup](#tab-group)
- [HorizontalGroup](#horizontal-group)
- [VerticalGroup](#vertical-group)

Note: BoxGroup and FoldoutGroup can be further enchanced using the GroupColor enum.

## Validation Attributes
Validation Attributes are used to assert certain rules over your properties. This is achieved in the inspector visualy using an error prompt, and through the use of the [ArtificeValidator](#artifice-validator).

- [Required](#required)
- [AssetOnly](#assetonly)
- [SceneObjectOnly](#sceneobjectonly)
- [ChildGameObjectOnly](#childgameobjectonly)
- [MinValue](#minvalue)
- [MaxValue](#maxvalue)

## Essential and Easy Attributes
These attributes can and should be used frequaently. They will at a bare minimum simplify and make the inspector more readable. 

- [Title](#title)
- [EnumToggle](#enumtoggle)
- [EnableIf](#enableif)
- [PreviewScriptable](#previewscriptable)
- [PreviewSprite](#previewsprite)

## Miscellaneous
- [Space](#space)
- [Range](#range)
- [HideLabel](#hidelabel)
- [InfoBox](#infobox)
- [ConditionalInfoBox](#conditionalinfobox)
- [MeasureUnit](#measureunit)

<!-- ALL ATTRIBUTES DETAILED -->
## All Attributes


<!-- GROUP ATTRIBUTES -->
### BoxGroup
The simplest form of a Group attribute is the BoxGroup. Every serialized property of the script will be packaged inside of a group with the given title.

```c#
[SerializeField, BoxGroup("GroupA")]
private int first;

[SerializeField, BoxGroup("GroupA")]
private int second;

[SerializeField, FoldoutGroup("GroupA/GroupB")]
private int third;

[SerializeField, FoldoutGroup("GroupA/GroupB/GroupC")]
private int forth;
``` 
IMAGE

### Foldout Group
The FoldoutGroup extends the BoxGroup by allowing the user to collapse the group if he does not care about it. This information is also persistent per serialized object.

```c#
[SerializeField, BoxGroup("GroupA")]
private int first;

[SerializeField, BoxGroup("GroupA")]
private int second;

[SerializeField, FoldoutGroup("GroupA/GroupB")]
private int third;

[SerializeField, FoldoutGroup("GroupA/GroupB/GroupC")]
private int forth;
```
IMAGE

### Tab Group
The TabGroup allows you to create tabs inside of the Unity inspector. The syntax is more comlex than Box and Foldout groups but it is well worth it.

```c#
[SerializeField, TabGroup("Example", "SectionA")]
private int first;

[SerializeField, TabGroup("Example", "SectionA")]
private int second;

[SerializeField, TabGroup("Example", "SectionB")]
private int third;

[SerializeField, TabGroup("Example", "SectionB")]
private int forth;
```
IMAGE

### Horizontal Group
The HorizontalGroup attribute allows you to align multiple properties into a single line, instead of splitting them as it is done by default. Note, that the Horizontal and Vertical groups do not show their titles and are solely used for structuring.

```c#
[SerializeField, HorizontalGroup("horizontal1")]
private List<int> leftColumn;

[SerializeField, HorizontalGroup("horizontal1")]
private List<int> rightColumn;
```
IMAGE

### Vertical Group
The Vertical Group is only useful inside of a horizontal group, to dictate a vertical column of properties inside of it.

```c#
[SerializeField, HorizontalGroup("horizontal1"), VerticalGroup("horizontal1/vertical")]
private List<int> leftColumn;

[SerializeField, HorizontalGroup("horizontal1"), VerticalGroup("horizontal1/vertical")]
private int leftColumnInteger;

[SerializeField, HorizontalGroup("horizontal1")]
private List<int> rightColumn;
```
IMAGE

---

<!-- VALIDATION ATTRIBUTES -->
### Required

### AssetOnly

### SceneObjectOnly

### ChildGameObjectOnly

### MinValue

### MaxValue

---

<!-- EASY AND ESSENTIALS -->
### Title

### EnumToggle

### EnableIf

### PreviewScriptable

### PreviewSprite

---

<!-- Miscellaneous -->
### Space

### Range

### HideLabel

### InfoBox

### ConditionalInfoBox

### MeasureUnit

---

<!-- Non-polished Attributes -->
## Non-Polished Attributes (WIP)
### TableList

### 


<!-- ARTIFICE VALIDATOR -->
# Artifice Validator
